So we have to look at lap and Konst and we also had a look at functions.
We also had some nice additions or changes to object literals Wireless-N object literal.
Well I'll give you a brief refresher.
We have an object and this is an object literal.
If it created like this with quali braces we might have a name inside of it which is set up like this
and we might have an age.
And of course we can print our object like that.
And if I run we see the object great.
So that is what we know and how we know it.
However chump's crypt where iOS 6 added some additions.
For example we might have a variable and.
And also the variable age which is set to let's say 25.
And now what do you think will happen if I remove that.
So I'm not assigning any values in here.
What do you think will happen if I had run.
Well actually the object will take the values from the surrounding variables.
So if we're not specifying values in year to initialize this object with it will automatically look
if it has variables declared before the declaration of this object year which match the property names
are so named a name and age and age and it will automatically take those values.
So that is a good way to quickly initialiser an object with the values of some variables you already
have in your code.
Of course you can still overwrite this and I could still set name to max if and now had run.
We see that age is still 25.
But the name was overridden so this still works it's just a shortcut.
You may use you may not only define properties this way you can also define methods or functions.
So why for example you could specify grittier and priorly you would do it like this function.
And then your function code.
Now you may simply add parentheses here and then the function body right away.
And then here you can print out this starred name for example and then
Estada H.
Now if I call object dog greet What do you think we'll see.
You got max 25.
And so this name refers to the name and here and this age refers to our age wiste which is set with
the variable outside of this code.
There have also been some other additions for example you already knew that you could create property
names as a string as well.
You can also do this for methods.
So I can read Greek in quotation marks here.
And of course the parentheses have to stay out that outside of them as they are not part of the name
.
But instead they indicate that this is a method and know I want to call this function.
Though I have to use square brackets to access this property name your greet since it now is a string
.
So if I now run this still works does of course also allows you to use names you would not be able to
use without quotation marks like greet me with the white space in between if I now run.
Yes he does Hauritz and of course this would not work if I were not to have my quotation marks years
since this is not a valid property name as well.
I may not have a whitespace in there as you can see we get an error number cool addition are dynamic
fields.
So I'm going to switch this back to B string lets say here like this.
Get rid of the dot so that this runs again.
And now dynamic fields are an interesting thing too.
Let's say I have a variable here and I named this age field and this should be a string H.
Now I can go into my object then with square brackets that's important that's the syntax here.
I can revert to H.
FIELD And now what this does is it does not create a property name square brackets H field.
But instead it will look for does age variable and Eustice the string here as a property name.
And I can show this by printing the object out to the console.
Now what do you think we'll see if I had run
we get an error.
And the reason for this is now it's not able to automatically take this value.
And of course it isn't because string age is not the same as this variable name age.
So in order to get rid of this error I will have to manually assign a value here again.
So now if I had run you see we now print out this object and then Max 28 year.
So we are able to dynamically at a property name H as you can see here and don't be confused that you
are not seeing the quotation marks here.
You are still accessing those values why are quotation marks like you see here with the function call
.
But as I said it's not able to automatically infer this value here anymore.
Sains well in quotation marks is not the same as this.
So this is how you can dynamically assign certain property values and of course you can also access
those values.
So let's see what happens if I print the age of my object here and I'll get rid of the greeting for
now.
So for now it's run.
This still works and you also saw how that worked because here is my function call I'm still accessing
this age so I can't still use dot notation for this field name since it doesn't have any invalid characters
in it.
It's not like the greet me function here so I can still access it with Dot H that doesn't work and that's
important to understand.
Now of course you can also access it at this age field.
The variable which holds the property name if I now indrawn you also see 28 and that is one of the important
things here.
You can create properties dynamically with the names stored in variables and then you can reuse those
variables to access Tila's properties.
Probably a use case you will have in your apps if you work with that kind of property creation that
you want to access your property names in the variable later on too.
And you can do this you can pass it to this square brackets notation to access your fields in this object
so that we're some additions to the way you work with object literals.
The fact that you have these shortcuts to initialize the fields or to set up functions.
Yes you can put your field names here into quotation marks.
Your function field names that you also have those dynamic fields like the age fields here.
So a lot of little additions which might come in handy when you were actually writing your applications